place the chicken, celery, carrot, onion, parsnip if use, parsley, peppercorn, bay leave and salt in a large soup pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch.
bring to a boil over high heat, then immediately reduce the heat to very low.
adjust the heat until the soup be smile barely move on the surface, with an occasional bubble break through.
Cook uncover, until the chicken be very tender and fall off the bone, 1 to 1 12 hour.
when cool enough to handle, use tong to transfer chicken from the pot to a container.
taste the broth and continue to simmer it until it be concentrated and tasty.
strain broth through a fine sieve or a colander line with cheesecloth into a separate container.
discard all the solid from the strainer or reserve the vegetable, chill and serve with vinaigrette, if you wish.
refrigerate chicken piece and broth separately for at least 8 hour or up to 3 day, until a thick layer of yellow fat have rise to the top of the broth.
when ready to finish the soup, use your finger to separate chicken breast meat from bone and skin.
Discard bone and skin.
use two fork to pull the breast meat apart into soft chunk, or use a knife and cut into bitesize piece.
reserve dark meat for another use.
Skim chicken fat from top of broth and set aside.
place 3 tablespoon of the fat in a soup pot with a lid.
add leek, stir to coat, and heat over medium heat until leek begin to fry.
then reduce the heat to a gentle sizzle and cook, stir often, until slightly soften, about 3 minute.
add carrot, sprinkle with salt, stir, and cover the pot.
cook until vegetable be just tender, about 5 minute more.
keep in mind that vegetable will continue to cook in the soup.
do not brown.
pour broth into pot with vegetable and heat to a simmer.
add noodle and simmer until heat through, soft and plump with chicken broth.
add the breast meat, then taste broth and add salt and pepper to taste.
for good flavor, soup should have some golden droplet of fat on top; if need, add more chicken fat one teaspoon at a time.
serve immediately, in a tureen or from the pot, sprinkle each serve with herb.